Okay, so we're back at Android studio
let's have a closer look now at this
view inspector, so click on the image
view if it's not clicked and we've got
the view inspector. Now inside the
inspector are four lines inside the
square here and they're used to set how
the width and height are interpreted.
Now google refer to these as the inner lines
within a widget. Now at the moment
they're both using the values that we've
specified in the lab width and layout
height boxes this is the 200 by 200 DP,
so that's actually called fixed but if I
come up here and I actually click on one
of these we can change them to match
constraints, I'll click on that now and
you can see that we had a change with
the image view on-screen and also the
markers changed to a sort of spiky graph
a bit like the electronics symbol for a
resistor. Now if we click it again now
you can see that's down here now in the
last width that's changed that to wrap
content and the markers change to
Chevron's and notice how fit start and
fit in work when the horizontal width is
set to wrap content and the layout
height is set to 200 DP, the vertical and
horizontal lines change independently so
what do they all mean? Well at the moment
we're working with an image that's
actually bigger than the device screen,
the image is 640 by 480 and our screen
isn't that wide.
Now please trust me on that for a moment
it probably doesn't make sense because
our Nexus 4 has a width of 768 but I'll
be explaining that shortly to prove
though that it's wider than the screen
we're going to click the vertical and
horizontal analyze into the layout width
and layout height change to wrap content
so you can see that I've got wrap
content for my layout width I'm going to
do the same for the layout height bill
clicking on it once and then clicking on
it again you can see we've got no rap
content although we can't quite see that
in the boxes it's been set for both the
layout width and layout height the other
thing you want to do now is come over
here a scout type and make sure that's
now set to fix XY. So now that I've done
that the image has to be compressed
horizontally so we've got that rugby
ball or AFL football which means it must
have been wider than the available space
now even changing the left margin to
zero doesn't help so if I try doing that
to zero we've still got this issue here
where clearly it's not fitting and I'll
just change it back to 16 so ignore the
numbers for now and trust your eyes the
image itself is definitely wider than
the screen now it's easy to understand
what these inner lion settings are doing
that we've been working with if we use a
smaller image so I'm going to change the
image views source attribute which is
abbreviated to SRC. Now because we're
using the app compat library to make our
app compatible with older devices the
attribute down here is called source
compat SRC compat and it's one of the
most commonly used properties that
appears in the right-hand pane by the
way this pane is dynamic so if you
happen to antique the compatibility
option when creating the project it
would actually be labelled SRC rather
than SRC compat but unless you've got a
really good reason for example you're
producing a corporate app targeting a
specific version of android that a
company is settled on then you should
really use the app compat library and
you should be seeing source compat in
the properties pane as showing on the
screen here now so what I'm going to do
is use the smaller ball image the ball
notice for 100 by 100 so that we can get
a better feel for how this works now I
could just come over here and go into
that box and you can see the name of the
current images ball underscore 640 by
480 so I could just change and type that
in and that would certainly work but if
I come over here and click on the
ellipsis over here click on that we get
the resources dialog and I can select
the image I want from there so that's
actually a lot easier it removes the
risk of typing the name incorrectly so
I'm going to select ball underscore 100
by 100 and click OK the other thing I'm
going to do is change the layout width
and height back to 200 DPS let's go into
there 200 DP and I'm just pressing tab
now 200 DP press ENTER there now notice
that there are the settings and the
inner lines are linked when we click the
in Alliance the layout width and layout
height settings change and also in this
case when we typed a value
or chose one of the settings for the
width and height then the inner lines
also changed to reflect the new settings
so in other words we're back to a fixed
setting here now so at this point we've
now got a 200 by 200 image view
containing a 100 by 100 image of a ball
now by the way I've given the ball up
green background so you can easily tell
when the image is smaller than its
container the image view and I chose a
ball not because I'm mad about soccer
but because it's easy to see when the
image gets skewed when it's resized
which means that the aspect ratio isn't
being maintained
now if to get a more visual idea of what
happens when I change the inter lines
you want to make sure that the scale
type is set to fit X Y which I've
already set here so at the moment we're
using a fixed width and height so the
values for the layout width and layout
height are being used and the current
size of the image view is 200 by 200 but
if we change the layout width to match
our constraints by clicking the
horizontal inner lines I've done there
you can see that the widgets now
expanded to fill the screen left to
right now if you designed android lamps
before by the way this may look the same
as match parent but it's actually
slightly different because it considers
the constraints now if you're new to
Android layouts match parent as a way of
sizing a widget so that it fits all the
available space in its parent its parent
being the layout that's been placed into
now match constraints looks exactly the
same as Maps parent here it's causing
the widget to expand to fill the width
of the screen allowing for the
left-to-right margins and you'll see
slightly different behavior once we have
some more widgets on the screen now if I
come over here and click on the
horizontal inner lines again it's gonna
change it to wrap content so let's do that
this makes the widget become as wide as
it needs to be to fit whatever it
contains. Now because we're using a 100
by 100 image the image view is now 100
DB wide because we chose fit X Y is the
scale type the image is scaled
vertically to fit the fixed height of
the image view which is still 200 DP so
therefore the football becomes sort of
like a rugby ball or a or football or
Easter Egg if chocolate is more your
thing and rugby
so I'm just going to do the same thing
here with the vertical sizes then I'm
going to explain about those strange
units the 100 DP and the 200 DP so I'm
going to click on that to get to wrap
content you can see that initially it
changed it to match constraints and the
imageview got stretched to fit the heart
of the layout I'll just do that again so
we can go back and see what I did so I
clicked that once and you can see that
the imagery stretched to fit the height
of the layout and it looks a bit
frightening rather than a rugby ball or
chocolate egg by clicking it again
changing changed the layout height to
wrap content and we get an image view
now that's 100 by 100 to match the image
that it contains so the image view is
basically at this point now sized both
vertically and horizontally to match its
contents which of course were 100 by 100
image now there's still a lot to look at
in this designer and if you are used to
using the older layouts that were
available you're probably getting pretty
excited about the way that this
constraint layout works but before I go
on to the really exciting stuff where we
constrain widgets to other widgets I
should probably explain what these
device-independent pixels or DP units
that were using her now our image is 100
pixels wide by 100 pixels high and the
previous image we used was a more usual
640 pixels wide by 480 pixels high
now 640 by 480 is a common size because
and he may not believe this that was the
resolution of early computer screens
I can still distinctly remember how
excited I was when I got my first 1024
by 768 monitor the aspect ratio was one
on the third so the screen height was
3/4 of its width now the current trend
is 4 screens to be much wider so we now
tend to have resolutions of 1280 by 720
or HD screens of 1920 by 1080 giving an
aspect ratio of about 1.8 but that's
computer screens though and mobile
phones are generally the other way around
so computer screens are in landscape and
mobile phones well they're in portrait
no different screens have different
resolutions as well and
model screens are managed managing to
pack in far more pixels per inch than
was previously possible so this is the
pixel density so if you've specified
dimensions in pixels your image may look
okay on one device but may look a bit
grim on something with a different pixel
density the number of pixels per inch
varies from one device to another and
that can result in our ball appearing in
different sizes relative to the size of
the screen. Now we're going to use the
Android studio layout designer to make
it easy to see how things look on
different devices we're going to start
on that in the next video.